---
title: Monitoring SLIs and SLOs
weight: 1
layout: single
related:
  - "/guides/kubernetes/app-observability-exporting-metrics"
team:
- Zac Bergquist
---

Service Level Indicators (SLIs) and Service Level Objectives (SLOs) are two of
the most important concepts in Site Reliability Engineering (SRE), and are key
to establishing an observability culture. It all starts with identifying the
right SLIs. Think about the key features and workflows that your users care most
about, and choose a small number (think three to five per service) of SLIs that
represent the availability of these features. For example, if you are running an
eCommerce service you may choose to measure the percentage of "add to shopping
cart" operations that succeed. Next, choose an appropriate objective for each of
these indicators. Avoid spending too much time debating the initial SLO - your
first attempt will almost certainly need adjustment. A good rule of thumb is to
start with an initial SLO much lower than you think you’ll need, and fine-tune
this number as necessary.

Once you’ve identified the SLIs and SLOs for your service you need to start
measuring them. SLIs are typically measured over a rolling window so that the
effects of an availability-impacting incident “stay with you” for some amount of
time, before rolling out of the window. This approach helps teams to adjust
their behavior in order to avoid multiple incidents occurring in a short amount
of time, which leads to unhappy users. Since many services have different usage
and traffic patterns on weekends, we recommend a 28-day rolling window - which
ensures you’ll always have four weekends in the window.

## Measurement

In this guide we’ll cover two simple frameworks for structuring your metrics in
a way that facilitates this type of monitoring. While these two approaches might
not work for every scenario, we’ve found that the majority of SLIs can be
measured in this way.

The first approach uses a single gauge metric. A gauge is a metric whose value
can increase or decrease over time, but in this approach we limit the value of
the gauge to 1 (last probe was successful) or 0 (last probe was unsuccessful).
Prometheus’ [`up`](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/jobs_instances/) time
series works in this way.

The second approach uses two counter metrics. A counter is a metric whose value
only increases with time (think total number of page views or total number of
error responses). In this approach, the first counter represents the total
number of probe attempts, and the second counter represents the total number of
successful (or unsuccessful) probes.

The examples that follow will use
[Tanzu Observability by Wavefront](https://tanzu.vmware.com/observability) for
the storage and visualization of this data, but the concepts can be applied to
any system that can store and display time-series data.

## Monitoring SLIs with a gauge metric

This approach exposes a single metric that is either 1 or 0 at all times. For
example, a probe could periodically test an application feature and set the
value of the metric to 1 if the operation succeeded, or 0 otherwise.

The raw metric may look like this:

![Raw Gauge Metric](/images/outcomes/app-observability/raw-gauge.png)

In this example, the probe was successful for all times except for a 2 hour
block on March 2, a 1 hour block on March 30, and a 10 minute block on April 1.

If our SLO is the percentage of attempts that succeeded over our time window,
then we need to determine both the total number of attempts in that window and
the number of them that were successful. For the total number of attempts, we
simply count the number of samples in the window (all 0 and 1 values). Since the
value of the metric is always 1 when the operation is successful, we can simply
sum all the samples in the window to get a value that represents the number of
probes that were successful.

We can use the `mcount` and `msum`
[moving window functions](https://docs.wavefront.com/query_language_reference.html#moving-window-time-functions)
to build the queries. For a metric named `gauge.up`, we would have the following
queries:

- Attempts: `mcount(28d, ts("guage.up"))`
- Successes: `msum(28d, ts("gauge.up"))`

With this in place, the current SLO attainment is simply the ratio of
successful attempts to total attempts. We can also plot the target SLO to make
it easier to gauge how we’re doing at a glance.

![Availability with Gauge](/images/outcomes/app-observability/availability-gauge.png)

Here we can see the 2 hour outage on March 2 took our availability from 100%
down to 99.7% (still above our 99.5% SLO). The impact of the outage remains for
28 days, and the
[error budget](https://tanzu.vmware.com/content/blog/thinking-in-error-budgets-how-pivotal-s-cloud-ops-team-used-service-level-objectives-and-other-modern-sre-practices-to-improve-outcomes)
is recovered on March 30, bringing the availability over the window back to
100%. This is short-lived, as the subsequent outages on March 30 and April 1
consume additional error budget, which will be reclaimed 28 days in the future.

## Monitoring SLIs with two counter metrics

An alternative way to measure this type of data is to use two separate (but
related) counters. The first counter represents the total number of attempts,
and is incremented every time a probe is performed. The second counter is the
number of successful attempts and is incremented only when the probe succeeds.
If all is going well, these two counters increase at the same rate. When the
system is unhealthy and some operations are failing, the total attempts counter
will increase faster than the successful attempts counter. The tricky thing
about counters is that they map “wrap” or reset due to a process restart or the
maximum integer value exceeded. For example, here’s a counter showing the total
number of attempts for the same sample:

![Counter Wrap](/images/outcomes/app-observability/counter-wrap.png)

In this example, a counter reset occurred sometime around March 1. A naive query
that simply looks at a counter value prior to March 1 and again after March 1
may think that the total number of attempts decreased. For this reason, it is
important to use query functions that can handle counter resets. In Wavefront
Query Language, the [`ratediff`](https://docs.wavefront.com/ts_ratediff.html)
function can be used to find out how much a value has increased from one sample
to the next, even in the face of counter resets. We combine this with the moving
sum of those increases over our 28 day window to get the total number of
attempts (or successes). For counters named `probe.attempts.total` and
`probe.successes.total` we would have the following queries:

- Attempts: `msum(28d, ratediff(ts("probe.attempts.total")))`
- Successes: `msum(28d, ratediff(ts("probe.successes.total")))`

![Availability with Counters](/images/outcomes/app-observability/availability-counters.png)

As you can see, this produces an availability graph with the same shape as the
gauge example.
