---
date: '2021-02-24'
description: A reference architecture for implementing the Contour Service Mesh
keywords:
- Kubernetes
- Contour
lastmod: '2021-02-24'
linkTitle: Contour Reference Architecture
parent: Service Routing
title: Contour Reference Architecture
weight: 1600
oldPath: "/content/guides/kubernetes/service-routing-contour-refarch.md"
aliases:
- "/guides/kubernetes/service-routing-contour-refarch"
---

This document details a reference architecture for running
[Contour](https://projectcontour.io/) as the ingress controller for a Kubernetes
cluster, such as [Tanzu Kubernetes Grid
(TKG)](https://tanzu.vmware.com/kubernetes-grid). It covers deployment
considerations, multi-tenancy concerns, and best practices. This document
represents how the VMware field team approaches Contour deployments in large
enterprise Kubernetes environments.

Throughout the document, "Contour" refers to the ingress controller as a whole.
In contrast, "contour" refers to the control plane of the ingress controller, or
the component of the ingress controller that interacts with the Kubernetes API.

Each section covers architectural recommendations and, at times, configuration
for each concern in a Contour deployment. At a high-level, the key
recommendations are:

- Follow the [split deployment architecture](#split-deployment) to deploy
  Contour onto the cluster.
  - Use a Deployment to run at least two instances of contour
  - Use a DaemonSet to deploy Envoy. (Use a Deployment if you want to auto-scale
    Envoy pods.)
- Use an external load balancer to distribute traffic across Envoy pods.
- [Set `externalTrafficPolicy: Local` when exposing Envoy over a `NodePort` or
  `LoadBalancer` service](#avoiding-unnecessary-network-hops)
- Consider using [dedicated ingress nodes](#dedicated-ingress-nodes) to minimize
  variability in request latency and unexpected performance issues.
- [Consider binding Envoy to the underlying host's network](#envoy-and-host-networking).
- Create a [wildcard DNS record](#wildcard-dns) that resolves to the load
  balancer in front of Envoy.
- Leverage [TLS certificate
  delegation](#wildcard-certificates-and-tls-certificate-delegation) to secure
  wildcard TLS certificates.
- [Avoid ingress configuration
  clashes](#preventing-ingress-configuration-collisions) by leveraging HTTPProxy
  inclusion or an admission controller, such as OPA Gatekeeper.

## Contour overview

Contour is an ingress controller for Kubernetes that leverages
[Envoy](http://envoyproxy.io/) in the data plane. With Contour, you can route
external clients to network services (usually HTTP and HTTPS) running within
your Kubernetes cluster. Contour routes traffic according to rules defined in
Kubernetes Ingress resources and Contour-specific HTTPProxy custom resources.
The HTTPProxy custom resource enables advanced use-cases that are otherwise not
available through the Kubernetes Ingress resource, such as configuring the load
balancing strategies, header-based routing, TLS cert delegation, and
[more](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.6.1/httpproxy).

Like other ingress controllers and Software-Defined Networking (SDN) solutions,
Contour is composed of a control plane and a data plane. The control plane is a
Kubernetes controller ("contour") that watches various resources defined in the
Kubernetes API, such as the Ingress and HTTPProxy resources. The data plane is a
collection of Envoy proxies that use contour as their management server. The
following diagram shows a high-level overview of a typical Contour's deployment.

![Contour Architecture](/images/guides/kubernetes/service-routing/diagrams/contour-high-level-architecture.drawio.png)

When Envoy starts up, it connects to contour and opens a persistent gRPC stream.
Using this stream, contour configures Envoy according to the Ingress and
HTTPProxy resources defined in the Kubernetes API. As these resources change,
contour sends updates to Envoy to reflect the latest configuration. This
API-driven configuration capability makes Envoy (and thus the Contour ingress
controller) an excellent fit for an environment as dynamic as Kubernetes. The
configuration is streamed as soon as it changes, and no restarts are required
for Envoy to start using the new configuration.

### Shutdown manager

The shutdown manager is an ancillary component that enables the graceful
shutdown of Envoy. Its goal is to reduce the number of dropped connections or
requests during pod lifecycle events, such as an update.

The shutdown manager is a sidecar that runs alongside the Envoy container. It
exposes an HTTP endpoint that accepts GET requests on `/shutdown`. This endpoint
is wired up as the preStop hook in the Envoy container.

When the Kubelet needs to terminate an Envoy pod, it sends a GET request to the
shutdown manager, according to the preStop hook configuration. The shutdown
manager, in turn, tells Envoy to drain existing connections. It also tells Envoy
to fail its readiness check, which prevents upstream load balancers from
establishing new connections. The shutdown manager then blocks and keeps the pod
running until Envoy drains all the connections, or until the shutdown grace
period is reached. To determine whether all connections have been drained, the
shutdown manager polls Envoy's metrics endpoint and looks at the active
connections metrics.

## Ingress Patterns

Contour supports different patterns to expose applications to requests from
outside of the cluster.

### HTTP proxying

Exposing applications over HTTP is the most basic pattern. Clients send an HTTP
request that is routed to Envoy. Once there, Envoy inspects the HTTP request and
routes it to a backend pod according to the Ingress or HTTPProxy configuration.

Given the following HTTPProxy resource, Envoy will route requests to the `app1`
Service when the request has a Host header of `app1.example.com`.

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: app1
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: app1.example.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
        - prefix: /
      services:
        - name: app1
          port: 80
```

The following diagrams shows the flow of the request:

![HTTP Ingress](/images/guides/kubernetes/service-routing/diagrams/contour-ingress-patterns-http.drawio.png)

### Exposing applications with TLS (HTTPS)

Contour supports exposing applications over HTTPS. To make routing decisions
according to the request, Envoy needs to decrypt the incoming TLS connection.
That is, Envoy terminates the TLS connection and then routes the request to the
backend server over an unencrypted connection.

Building on the previous example, the following configuration tells Envoy to
expose `app1` over HTTPS using the certificate and private key contained in the
`tls-cert` Secret.

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: app1
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: app1.example.com
    tls:
      secretName: tls-cert
  routes:
    - conditions:
        - prefix: /
      services:
        - name: app1
          port: 80
```

The following diagram shows the request flow:

![HTTPS Ingress](/images/guides/kubernetes/service-routing/diagrams/contour-ingress-patterns-https.drawio.png)

When TLS is enabled, Envoy redirects HTTP clients to the HTTPS endpoint. The
redirect is enabled by default when using TLS, but it can be disabled on
specific routes by setting `permitInsecure: true`. The following diagram shows
the redirect to the secure endpoint:

![HTTPS Ingress with redirect](/images/guides/kubernetes/service-routing/diagrams/contour-ingress-patterns-https-redirect.drawio.png)

### TLS connection to an HTTP backend

As mentioned above, Envoy establishes an unencrypted connection to the backend
service when TLS is enabled. Envoy can, however, create a secure connection when
necessary. If the backend exposes a secure endpoint and expects a TLS
connection, you can set the protocol field to `tls` in the route configuration.

The following sample HTTPProxy resource sets the `protocol` field of the `app1`
service to `tls`:

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: app1
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: app1.example.com
    tls:
      secretName: tls-cert
  routes:
    - conditions:
        - prefix: /
      services:
        - name: app1
          port: 443
          protocol: tls
```

The following diagram shows the connections given the above configuration:

![HTTPS Ingress with TLS to backend](/images/guides/kubernetes/service-routing/diagrams/contour-ingress-patterns-https-to-backend.drawio.png)

By default, Envoy **does not** validate the certificate served by the backend.
To enable validation, you must specify a `caSecret` and `subjectName` in the
HTTPProxy configuration:

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: app1
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: app1.example.com
    tls:
      secretName: tls-cert
  routes:
    - conditions:
        - prefix: /
      services:
        - name: app1
          port: 443
          protocol: tls
          validation:
            caSecret: ca-cert
            subjectName: app1.example.com
```

### Exposing TCP services

In addition to HTTP services, Contour can also expose TCP services through
Envoy. The only requirement is that the incoming TCP connection is encrypted
with TLS and that the client indicates the destination hostname using [Server
Name Indication (SNI)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6066#page-6). Envoy needs
this indication to route the connection to the appropriate backend.

TCP proxying is configured using the `tcpproxy` field of the HTTPProxy custom
resource, as in the following example:

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: tcp-svc
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: tcp-app.example.com
    tls:
      secretName: tls-secret
  tcpproxy:
    services:
      - name: tcp-app
        port: 8080
```

With the above configuration, Envoy first inspects the SNI extension to
determine the destination server. Once identified, it terminates the TLS
connection and forwards the TCP traffic over an unencrypted connection.

![TCP Proxying with TLS](/images/guides/kubernetes/service-routing/diagrams/contour-ingress-patterns-tcp-proxying.drawio.png)

### TLS passthrough

If the backend TCP service needs to handle the TLS connection, you can enable
TLS passthrough. In this mode, Envoy inspects the SNI extension to determine the
backend service but does not terminate the TLS connection. Instead, it forwards
the TLS connection to the backend service.

To enable TLS passthrough, set `tls.passthrough = true`, as in the following
HTTPProxy example:

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: tcp-svc
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: tcp-app.example.com
    tls:
      passthrough: true
  tcpproxy:
    services:
      - name: tcp-app
        port: 8080
```

![TCP Proxy with TLS passthrough](/images/guides/kubernetes/service-routing/diagrams/contour-ingress-patterns-tcp-proxying-passthrough.drawio.png)

## Deployment architecture

You can deploy Contour onto a Kubernetes cluster in different ways. Because
Envoy and contour talk to each other over a gRPC connection, you can deploy them
as separate pods. Alternatively, you can deploy Envoy with contour as a sidecar.
These deployment models are discussed below.

### Split deployment

In this model, you deploy contour and Envoy separately, contour as a Deployment
and Envoy as a DaemonSet. (Envoy can also be managed by a Deployment. More on
this below.) The contour deployment runs two or more replicas to ensure
high-availability of the control plane. The contour replicas are accessible
through a ClusterIP Service. Envoy uses this Service to connect to contour and
initiate the gRPC stream to get the routing configuration. The following diagram
shows the control plane architecture of the split deployment.

![Contour Split-Deployment Control Plane](/images/guides/kubernetes/service-routing/contour-split-deployment-architecture.drawio.png)

The main benefits of the split deployment model are scalability and efficiency.
Because contour and Envoy are deployed separately, you can scale the data plane
independently of the control plane. That is, you can horizontally scale the
Envoy pods to meet the traffic demands of your applications without increasing
the number of contour pods. By running the minimal amount of contour pods
necessary, you save on compute resources while also reducing the load on the
Kubernetes API server itself.

As mentioned above, the split deployment model can be more scalable and
efficient than the same-pod deployment model. There is a tradeoff involved,
however, in that the split deployment model is more complex. Given that contour
and Envoy run as separate pods, (and thus live in different network namespaces),
they need to communicate over the pod network.

The interaction between contour and Envoy exposes an attack surface that you
must mitigate, given that contour serves sensitive information such as TLS
secrets. These secrets must only be available to trusted Envoy clients and no
other workloads in the cluster. In other words, contour needs to authenticate
clients, and it does so using mutual TLS. In the split deployment model, contour
uses a serving certificate to expose an HTTPS endpoint, and Envoy uses a client
certificate to authenticate with contour. Having to manage these certificates
over time increases the complexity of the split deployment architecture.

### Sidecar deployment

The sidecar deployment architecture co-locates contour and Envoy in the same pod
(the "Contour pod"). This architecture is similar to other ingress controllers,
such as the NGINX ingress controller. Multiple replicas of the Contour pod run
in the cluster and are managed by a Kubernetes Deployment or DaemonSet.

Because Envoy and contour are in the same pod, they can talk to each other over
localhost. This removes the need for mutual TLS between Envoy and contour, which
alleviates the operational burden of managing certificates. The following
diagram shows the sidecar deployment, focusing on the interaction between
contour and Envoy.

![Contour Sidecar Deployment](/images/guides/kubernetes/service-routing/contour-sidecar-deployment-architecture.drawio.png)

The main drawback of the sidecar deployment is an increase in load imposed on
the Kubernetes API server. Instead of running a couple of contour pods to serve
the configuration to n Envoy servers, you now have n contour processes
connecting to and watching the API server. Unless you plan to run a limited
number of Contour pods (by using dedicated ingress nodes, for example), you
should avoid this deployment model.

## Envoy deployment considerations

### Dedicated ingress nodes

The ingress tier is a critical component of an application platform. It is
shared across different applications, and it is in the data path between an
application and its customers. Due to the importance of the ingress data path,
dedicating cluster nodes to run Envoy is beneficial.

The primary benefit is resource isolation. Even though Kubernetes has support
for setting up resource requests and limits, getting those parameters right can
be challenging. Furthermore, Kubernetes does not support resource isolation for
network I/O or file descriptors. When running Envoy by itself, you prevent any
potential noisy neighbor problems that could impact the performance of the
ingress data plane. You also don't have to worry about Envoy getting evicted by
other pending pods when nodes are under resource contention.

Another reason for running Envoy on dedicated nodes is compliance. Most
enterprise environments have predefined firewall rules that can be incompatible
with ingress requirements. If you are working in such an environment, dedicated
ingress nodes can help, as it is easier to get an exception for a subset of
nodes instead of all of them.

Finally, limiting the number of nodes that run Envoy is helpful in bare-metal or
on-premises installations. In these deployments, the ingress tier is fronted by
a hardware load balancer that, in most cases, is manually configured to route
traffic to the ingress nodes. Having a small number of ingress nodes eases the
configuration and management of these external load balancers.

Overall, dedicating nodes for ingress purposes can help with performance,
compliance, and managing external load balancers. With that said, ingress node
failures must be accounted for, as Envoy will not run on nodes other than those
reserved for ingress. In the ideal case, failed nodes are automatically replaced
with new nodes that can continue handling ingress traffic.

### Envoy and host networking

To optimize the ingress traffic path, you can bind Envoy to the underlying
host's network. By doing so, incoming requests bypass the Kubernetes Service
fabric (usually iptables rules) and reach Envoy directly.

While running Envoy directly on the host's network can increase performance,
there are important caveats to keep in mind:

1. The Envoy process is no longer isolated in its own network namespace.
   Therefore, the node's network interfaces and network services running on
   the node are accessible to Envoy.

2. The shutdown manager sidecar binds to `0.0.0.0:8090`, making it available on
   all the host's network interfaces when host networking is enabled. Ensure
   that there are firewall rules in place that block requests to port 8090.
   Otherwise, the shutdown manager endpoint can be exploited to bring down the
   ingress data plane.

3. Envoy exposes Prometheus metrics on `0.0.0.0:8002`. These metrics will be
   accessible on the node's port `8002` .

If you want to enable host networking in the Envoy pods, you must set the pod's
`hostNetwork` field to `true` and set the `dnsPolicy` field to
`ClusterFirstWithHostNet`. The following manifest show the two modifications in
the Envoy pod specification:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: DaemonSet
metadata:
  labels:
    app: envoy
  name: envoy
  namespace: projectcontour
spec:
  # ...
  # removed for brevity
  # ...
  spec:
    hostNetwork: true # Enable hostNetwork
    dnsPolicy: ClusterFirstWithHostNet # Update dns policy
    containers:
      - args:
          - -c
          - /config/envoy.json
          - --service-cluster $(CONTOUR_NAMESPACE)
          - --service-node $(ENVOY_POD_NAME)
          - --log-level info
        command:
          - envoy
        image: docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy:v1.15.0
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: envoy
  # ...
  # removed for brevity
  # ...
```

### Avoiding unnecessary network hops

When using a Service to expose Envoy (such as a `NodePort` or a `LoadBalancer`
Service), set the `externalTrafficPolicy` to `Local`. The `Local` policy ensures
that incoming traffic is routed to the Envoy instance running on the local node
instead of adding an extra hop to another node.

![Envoy Binding Host Port](/images/guides/kubernetes/service-routing/diagrams/contour-envoy-host-port.drawio.png)

### DaemonSet versus Deployment

In the split deployment model, you can deploy Envoy as a DaemonSet or a
Deployment. In most cases, a DaemonSet is preferred because Envoy can
efficiently use the underlying node's CPU cores. Thus, there is no real benefit
to running multiple instances of Envoy on the same node.

Using a Deployment for Envoy is suitable when you are leveraging the
auto-scaling capabilities of Kubernetes. If you are working in a dynamic
environment, such as a cloud provider, you can auto-scale the Envoy deployment
according to its utilization using a Horizontal Pod Autoscaler. With that said,
you must set pod anti-affinity rules to spread the Envoy pods across different
nodes.

If you are deploying Contour under the sidecar model and are not using dedicated
ingress nodes, avoid using a DaemonSet. The problem with using a DaemonSet is
that a controller runs on every node, which results in unnecessary load on the
Kubernetes API server. This overhead on the API server might not be notable in
small clusters but can become evident as you grow your clusters.

## High Availability

Contour supports running multiple replicas of the control plane component and
the data plane component.

On the controller side, contour performs leader election. Once elected, the
leader starts serving configuration to the Envoy proxies. The leader election
mechanism prevents contour replicas from stepping on each other, mainly when writing
status updates back to the API server.

When it comes to the data plane, you can run as many Envoy proxies as needed by
the applications running on the platform. The number of Envoy replicas is
typically dictated by the size of the nodes where Envoy is running and the
amount of traffic you need to handle. At a minimum, you should run two instances
to tolerate failure.

## Handling DNS records

Applications running in the cluster share the ingress data plane, and thus share
a single entry point into the cluster. As with all ingress controllers, one of
Contour's primary responsibilities is to disambiguate ingress traffic according
to the configuration defined in the Ingress and HttpProxy resources.

A typical pattern used to expose multiple applications over the same ingress
point is to slice up a domain and assign subdomains to different applications.
When the incoming traffic reaches Envoy, it inspects the Host header of the
request and routes it according to the subdomain. For example, traffic with the
Host header set to `appA.cloud.example.com` is forwarded to application A, while
a request with the Host header equal to `appB.cloud.example.com` is forwarded to
application B. To implement this pattern, however, external clients must be able
to resolve the domain names configured in the Ingress and HttpProxy resources.

### Wildcard DNS

Using a wildcard DNS is a viable approach to implement subdomain-based routing.
If you are looking to enable this use case, consider using a wildcard DNS record
pointing to the load balancer in front of the Envoy proxies. For example, to
support the scenario mentioned above, you would define a wildcard DNS entry for
`*.cloud.example.com`.

### External-DNS controller

The [external-dns](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns) controller
is another approach for handling DNS records for ingress purposes. The
external-dns controller integrates Kubernetes with an upstream DNS provider. The
controller continuously creates and updates DNS records according to the
configuration defined in Ingress resources.

If you are using a DNS provider that is compatible with external-dns, consider
using this controller to enable DNS resolution of services exposed via Ingress.
Keep in mind, however, that external-dns is not yet compatible with Contour's
HTTPProxy custom resource. There is an [open pull
request](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns/pull/1628) in the
core-dns project that adds support for it.

The external-dns controller uses the Ingress resource's status field to
determine the DNS record's target IP address. If you are running Contour without
a LoadBalancer service, you must set the `ingress-status-address` field in
Contour's configuration file. Otherwise, Contour does not set the
`status.loadBalancer.ingress` field of Ingress resources, which prevents the
external-dns controller from working.

## Certificate management for TLS

Contour can route traffic to HTTPS and TLS-enabled TCP services. Contour uses
the Kubernetes Secret API to access the certificates it needs to serve these
applications. There various considerations to make when exposing secure services
using Contour, and we discuss them in the following sections.

### Wildcard certificates and TLS certificate delegation

Ingress and HTTPProxy resources that route to a TLS-enabled backend must
reference a Kubernetes Secret. This Secret contains the private key and serving
certificate used to serve traffic over TLS.

Using a wildcard certificate to support a domain and its subdomains is a common
practice. In such scenarios, the wildcard certificate is typically owned and
managed by the platform operator. Because multiple applications use the wildcard
certificate, the cert needs to live in a Secret across various namespaces. This
is problematic, as the Secret is readily available to application developers
that should otherwise not have read access to this Secret.

Contour addresses this problem with TLS certificate delegation. Instead of
creating the wildcard certificate Secret in all namespaces, you store the Secret
in a namespace owned by the platform team. Once the Secret is in place, you can
allow developers to reference that single Secret from their namespaces.

If you are using wildcard certificates, consider using TLS certificate
delegation to protect the certs and minimize management overhead. See the [TLS
certificate delegation
documentation](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.6.1/httpproxy/#tls-certificate-delegation)
for more details about this feature.

### Cert-manager integration

[Cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) is a Kubernetes controller that
automates the issuance and management of certificates. You can use cert-manager
to issue certificates for services if you are using the Ingress API.
Unfortunately, however, the HTTPProxy API is not yet directly compatible with
cert-manager.

If you are planning to use cert-manager with the HTTPProxy API, you must follow
a workaround. The workaround involves setting up a dummy Ingress resource that
cert-manager uses to issue the certificate. See the [Contour and cert-manager
guide](https://projectcontour.io/guides/cert-manager/#making-cert-manager-work-with-httpproxy)
for additional information on the workaround.

## Multi-tenancy considerations

### Preventing ingress configuration collisions

Multi-tenant platforms are prone to configuration clashes at the ingress layer.
The primary example is different teams trying to use the same FQDN to expose
their applications. Consider a scenario where an application team exposes their
app at `app.example.com`. If another team creates an ingress configuration that
uses the same URL, they will create a collision. The same issue can arise with
path-based routing (for example, different teams trying to use `/app` at
`example.com`).

#### Root HTTPProxy resources and Inclusion

Contour addresses this issue with _root_ HTTPProxy resources. Root HTTPProxy
resources define the top-level configuration for a specific ingress point, such
as the FQDN and primary paths. As a platform operator, you [configure Contour
only to
accept](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.6.1/httpproxy/#restricted-root-namespaces)
root HTTPProxy resources from namespaces under your control. You set this
configuration using the `--root-namespaces` flag of the contour binary. Then,
when you create the root HTTPProxy resources, you _include_ HTTPProxy resources
from other namespaces.
[Inclusion](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.6.1/httpproxy/#conditions-and-inclusion)
enables you to control the root HTTPProxy configuration while delegating the
application-specific configuration to the respective application teams (or
namespaces).

The following example shows a sample scenario for a micro-services application.
Assume the `--root-namespaces` flag is set to `httpproxy-roots`. The root
HTTPProxy sets the FQDN to `example.com`. It then assigns the `/auth` path to
the authentication team, the `/reservations` path to the reservations team, and
the `/profile` path to the user profile team. Each team gets to configure
ingress routing in their namespaces, but they can only configure their subpath
of `example.com`.

```yaml
# Example HTTPProxy owned by the platform team.
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: example-com-root
  namespace: httpproxy-roots # Roots can only exist in this namespace
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: example.com
  includes:
    - name: auth
      namespace: authentication
      conditions:
        - prefix: /auth # The authentication team can use example.com/auth
    - name: reservations
      namespace: reservations
      conditions:
        - prefix: /reservations # The reservations team can use example.com/reservations
    - name: user-profile
      namespace: user-profile
      conditions:
        - prefix: /profile # The user profile team can use example.com/profile
---
# Example HTTPProxy created by the reservations team in their namespace.
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: reservations
  namespace: reservations
spec: # Notice the `virtualhost` stanza is missing, as this is not a root HTTPProxy
  routes:
    - services: # matches /reservations
        - name: reservations-home
          port: 80
    - conditions:
        - prefix: /cancel # matches /reservations/cancel
      services:
        - name: cancellation-svc
          port: 80
```

#### Admission Control

Admission control is another mechanism to prevent ingress configuration
collisions and is the most common solution implemented with other ingress
controllers. When it comes to ingress, there are different admission strategies
you can apply. A straightforward approach is to reject any Ingress resource (or
HTTPProxy resource, for that matter) that conflicts with resources that already
exist in the cluster. The OPA Gatekeeper project, for example, has an [example
implementation](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/tree/master/library/general/uniqueingresshost)
of this strategy in their library. More advanced admission strategies are also
possible. For example, an admission controller can reach out to another system
to determine whether an application team can use a given FQDN.

### Ingress Isolation

In some scenarios, different tenants or applications need a separate (or
dedicated) ingress path. This could be for performance, regulatory, or other
reasons. In such cases, you can run multiple Contour ingress controllers. Each
controller watches a specific set of Ingress/HTTPProxy resources, as determined
by the ingress class. Use the `--ingress-class-name` flag on the `contour`
binary to set the ingress class name.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    app: contour
  name: contour
  namespace: projectcontour
spec:
  replicas: 2
  # ...
  # removed for brevity
  # ...
      containers:
      - name: contour
        args:
        - serve
        - --incluster
        - --xds-address=0.0.0.0
        - --xds-port=8001
        - --envoy-service-http-port=80
        - --envoy-service-https-port=443
        - --contour-cafile=/certs/ca.crt
        - --contour-cert-file=/certs/tls.crt
        - --contour-key-file=/certs/tls.key
        - --config-path=/config/contour.yaml
        - --ingress-class-name=my-ingress-class # Set the ingress class here
  # ...
  # removed for brevity
  # ...
```

To target a specific ingress class in an Ingress or HTTPProxy resource,
developers can set the `kubernetes.io/ingress.class` annotation:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: my-ingress
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: "my-ingress-class"
spec:
  rules:
    - host: my-svc.example.com
      http:
        paths:
          - path: /
            backend:
              serviceName: my-svc
              servicePort: 80
```